docs: make steps in git workflow more beginner-friendly (#1772)
asyncapi/community: git-workflow.md

# Git Workflow

This document is the best practice guide that contains the rules to follow when working with AsyncAPI repositories.

## Overview

> AsyncAPI uses a fork model to allow contributions to the organization's repositories. In this model, you push changes to your own working copy (a fork, a so-called `origin`) of the original repository (a so-called `upstream`), and then create one or more pull requests (PRs) to incorporate changes from the `origin` to `upstream`. This unified workflow allows both members and external contributors to contribute through the same process, keeping the main repository branches clean.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
AsyncAPI uses a fork model for all community members, including maintainers. In this model, you push changes to your own working copy (a fork, a so-called `origin`) of the original repository (a so-called `upstream`), and then create one or more pull requests (PRs) to incorporate changes from the `origin` to `upstream`. This unified workflow allows both members and external contributors to contribute through the same process, keeping the main repository branches clean.
```

Reviewer: > (a fork, a so-called `origin`)

you need to change it somehow - it sounds like origin is the same as fork but it is not

origin is the remote version of repo - opposing the local copy (clone)

so upstream, if somebody clones (asyncapi bot) the upstream, it operates on local version, on clone - and pushes it to origin, in this case upsteam is origin

so fork = origin && upstream = origin

    ```bash
    # Command syntax
    git clone URL
    
    # Examples
    git clone https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/asyncapi-community.git
    git clone git@github.com:YOUR-USERNAME/asyncapi-community.git
    ```

## Configure your fork

Configure a remote repository that points to the `upstream` repository. This allows you to synchronize changes you make on the fork with the original repository. Configuration can be done manually or using the GitHub UI.

> [!TIP]
> If you perform fork configuration for the first time, it is recommended to do it manually to understand all the steps.
>
> Next time you can write a script to synchronize master branch of your fork with the master branch of upstream git repository. Check [this script](https://gist.github.com/derberg/87319e9c486e4a6c9bef5b629ab0d386) as an example to get started.

### Manual configuration

In the terminal, navigate to your fork's location and perform the following steps:

1. Check the current list of remotes:
    
    ```bash
    # Command
    git remote -v
    
    # Output
    origin  https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/FORK-NAME.git (fetch)
    origin  https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/FORK-NAME.git (push)
    ```

> 2. Add the `upstream` repository:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Add the `upstream` repository. In other words, point to main project located in AsyncAPI GitHub organization:
```

    ```bash
    # Command
    git remote add upstream https://ORIGINAL-OWNER/ORIGINAL-REPOSITORY-NAME.git
    
    # Example
    git remote add upstream https://github.com/asyncapi/community.git
    ```
    
    Verify that the `upstream` has been added:
    
    ```bash
    git remote -v
    
    # Output
    origin https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/FORK-NAME.git (fetch)
    origin https://github.com/YOUR-USERNAME/FORK-NAME.git (push)
    upstream       git@github.com:asyncapi/asyncapi-community.git (fetch)
    upstream       git@github.com:asyncapi/asyncapi-community.git (push)
    ```

3. Fetch changes from the `upstream`:

>     ```bash
>     # Command
>     git fetch upstream BRANCH-NAME
>     
>     # Example
>     git fetch upstream master
>     ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    ```bash
    # Command
    git fetch upstream master
    ```
```

in our case it will always be `master` - because of ci/cd complex setup, we are not able to enable `main`

4. Set the `master` branch of your fork to track the `master` branch of the `upstream` repository:

    ```bash
    git branch -u upstream/master master
    ```
    
    Verify with `git branch -vv`:
    ```bash
    * master           c2226e0 [upstream/master] Update the README.md document
    ```

By setting the `upstream` branch, you can simplify your workflow. For example, you can use `git pull` and `git push` without specifying the remote and branch names, as Git will automatically use the `upstream` branch you have set. This is particularly useful when you frequently need to synchronize your local branch with a remote branch.

### Using GitHub UI

> For minor changes via GitHub UI, use a [Pull bot](https://probot.github.io/apps/pull) to keep your fork up to date.

Reviewer: so many years after writing this first version of the document, not sure we should recommend pullbot

now there is a native functionality in GH, that allows you to update your fork with upstream with one click

I stopped using pull bot few years back 😄

## Start Contributing

1. Create a branch on your fork.
2. Commit changes with clear messages. Use the [Conventional Commits](https://github.com/asyncapi/community/pull/1733) format.
3. Push changes to your fork:

    ```bash
    git push -u origin BRANCH-NAME
    ```
    
    For subsequent pushes, use the shorthand:
    
    ```bash
    git push
    ```

> 4. Create a pull request from your branch of the `origin` repository to the `master` branch of the `upstream` repository and await review.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Create a pull request from your branch of the fork repository to the `master` branch of the `upstream` repository and await review.
```
